# Title

Practical Security for Embedded Systems: Implementing TEE and Secure Storage

# Abstract

In this presentation, we will explore practical security measures for embedded
systems using Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) and its secure storage
implementations. We will cover the benefits of TEEs, the idea of a root of
trust, and share insights from our experience of integrating it within our
Yocto-based Secure Embedded Linux distribution, Zarhus OS. Attendees will gain
practical hints and tools to enhance the security of their embedded systems.

# Description

In this session, we will delve into the essential aspects of securing embedded
systems. The session begins with an introduction to the importance of security
in embedded systems, followed by a brief presentation of key concepts such as
the root of trust and, eventually, the architecture of Trusted Execution
Environments (TEEs).

We will then discuss the practical implementation of TEEs and its secure storage
implementations, detailing how they function and the security benefits they
provide.

Next, we will move to the current support within Yocto, discussing available
tools, resources, and ongoing developments that support secure implementations.
This discussion will be illustrated with our custom Yocto-based
Secure Embedded Linux distribution, Zarhus OS. We will explain its design, the
security features it incorporates, and how it enhances the security of embedded
systems. This segment will provide practical insights into the development and
deployment of a secure embedded Linux distribution.

The session will also include a case study of our involvement in the CROSSCON
project, an initiative aimed at standardizing the IoT security stack, and the
problems it tackles.

By the end of this session, participants will be aware of TEEs and its
implementations, equipped with the knowledge and tools on how to implement these
security measures in their own embedded systems. They will also gain insights
from practical examples and ongoing projects to aid in their security
implementations with Yocto.
